All right in this lecture we're going to go over how to use overlapping size and placement to create
space in your drawings.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So we're going to be drawing a picture of some eggs.
So first off what I want to do is I want to draw my first egg which is going to be the egg that is nearest
to me.
So it's going to be right here in the center and it's going to be sitting upright.
Next we're going to do is I want to decide where my next egg is going to be.
So the next egg is going to be placed behind this egg so that we create that space.
We're also going to make the next egg just a little bit smaller than this one.
So it looks a little bit further back the further away something is the smaller it gets.
So let's go ahead and put another egg
up there.
And then lastly let's put our last egg and we're going to put that off in the distance and it's going
to be a little bit higher up towards the horizon line.
That way it looks like it's also further away so it'll be smaller and higher up like so perfect.
Next what we want to do is we want to start adding in our detail and highlights and shadows so we need
to decide where our light source is coming from.
So I think I'm an AM light source coming from up here down in this direction.
So let's go ahead and start adding in our highlights and shadows.
So first off I'll start with my basic highlight.
I like shadow on the side and I'll do that on all of my matings
think so.
And then I'm going to go ahead and start Durkan in my contour lines.
So and then we go ahead and start really detailing these and so starting with this first egg.
I'm going to go ahead and add in my core shadow.
So of course that is going to come along like so
you know I have my doubts lay along this edge.
You don't want to go ahead and keep continuing to shake this thing with my midterm which I want to slowly
fade into my highlight
perfect them and to go ahead and add in our cast shadow.
So this is going to ground or egg onto our surface floor.
And it's also going to help create that space because we'll see where this cash is and then we'll see
it Cash show for this too.
And that will give us more space by seeing how much distance there is between those two cast shadows.
So let's go ahead and have cash for this egg.
So it's going to go about there.
Then we can go ahead and fill that in
perfect next.
Let's go ahead and move on to this next egg.
So I'm going to start off by adding in my core chateau
then I can go ahead and start blending in the shadow with my mid-tone and then I can slowly blend that
into my highlight
and then we can go ahead and add in our cast shadows so go ahead and draw that line.
So now I'll go ahead and fill that in
and then let's move on to this last a back here.
So since it's further away it's going to be just a tiny bit wider than the values in these NGs.
So let's go ahead and start film those in
and then we'll go ahead and add in the cast shadow for that egg.
So it's come off like so.
And then lastly what I want to do is I want to go ahead and add in there a horizon line
and the horizon line might even just be the edge of a table.
But the point of adding the horizon line is so that we can see where these eggs are placed distance
wise in our space so we can tell that this is further away because of how close it is to that horizon
line we can also tell how close it is because of how small it is.
We can tell that this is further back than this one because of its placement.
It's a little bit higher up than this egg and it's behind us.
So we've used Sayce overlapping and placement.
Now one last thing we can do to finish off this drawing is we can go ahead and add it in a darker background
over here.
So that way our eggs stand out a little bit more.
All right that brings us to the end of this lecture.
So this is what you do you learn how to use three different techniques to create space in your drawings.
The first one was the overlapping technique by putting another object behind another.
This creates space and distance.
The next one was the use of size by making something smaller on the page.
It makes it appear further away.
And the last one was placement.
So by placing something closer to this horizon line or its edge that makes your object seem further
away.
Your assignment for this lecture is to redraw this picture right here.
Except you don't have to do Ags.
You can do whatever you want you can do spheres you can do cubes you can do objects from life.
It doesn't matter.
I just want you to practice these three techniques of creating space in your drawings.
Once you've done that go ahead and take a picture of your drawing and post it to either the Q and A
section of the Course or the Facebook group.
Thanks for watching.
And I look forward to seeing you in the next election.